# Community WG Notes - March 2025

**Watch the replays:**
[GraphQL Working Group Meetings on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLP1igyLx8foHhWZk2u1SthsW1weH3VA7l)

Agenda:
[https://github.com/graphql/community-wg/blob/main/agendas/2025/03-Mar/13-community-working-group-march-2025.md](https://github.com/graphql/community-wg/blob/main/agendas/2025/03-Mar/13-community-working-group-march-2025.md)

## Review agenda (2m, Host)

- A lot of communication has happened offline, this is good üëç!
- Benjie is working on getting Zoom AI note taking in the meetings
- We are not using ‚Äúready for review‚Äù yet but we probably should.
- Doc has done a summary of the issues:
  - https://github.com/graphql/community-wg/issues/50
- Moved Discord topic to end
- Plan to circle back to agenda summary

## Align on main goals for the working group (15m, Urigo)

- Uri:
  [https://github.com/graphql/community-wg/issues/28](https://github.com/graphql/community-wg/issues/28)
- 1. Broaden GraphQL's appeal and adoption (Doc: "Awareness and Adoption")
  - Growth isn't where we want it to be
  - People aren't aware of how GraphQL could benefit them
- 2. Unblock and empower community initiatives
- 3. Foster a transparent community
- From Doc's summary:
  - Ambassador program
  - How to announce/invite people
  - Doing a survey
  - Grouping:
    - Growing community
    - Communication
      - e.g. pilot with Slack
    - Support activities
      - How to support GraphQLConf 2025
      - Building local meetups
  - Uri: meetups fits under broadening community, and unblocking/empowering
    community initiatives
- Benjie: suggest renaming point 3 to "Fostering transparency with the
  community" for clarity
- Doc: a survey would help with this, ensuring we're hitting the right targets
- Martin: they look good; do we need to commit to these, or can we change them
  as we discover new things.
- Uri: these are our "modest principles for start"
- An: Is the objective more: "To lower the barrier to join an inclusive GraphQL
  community"?
- Doc: How did you find this meeting?
- An: Uri contacted me.
- Erik: It can be intimidating, some people might be afraid by our agendas and
  leave it to ‚Äúthe experts‚Äù
- Erik: Would be cool to have folks attend more casually if they want to.
- Benjie (in chat): we need to define what we mean by community (is it
  contributors, ambassadors, meetups, ‚Ä¶)
- Jeff: we've dozens of people who attend the working groups. We have a
  significant proportion of the internet users who use GraphQL via apps,
  billions. We've the community of people who write frontend apps, actually
  writing GraphQL queries. We've the community of people writing GraphQL clients
  that these developers user.
- We want more spec writers. We want more people talking about GraphQL. These
  are all goals, huge goals, depending on which level we zoom in at. Maybe we
  need to zoom in on "personas" - who are the people that we're serving. This
  may help us speak to the needs of those folks - is it the spec? is it the
  tools? best practices?
- Erik: personas are crucial to any technology you're trying to get out there.
  Asking maintainers if they've heard of the new spec features or not yet. We'd
  benefit from pulling more people under the common mission; fostering
  connections for feedback.
- Doc: some personas mentioned include enterprise users vs developers. We need
  consensus at the top level, then we can bear down into more detail into how to
  execute. With community, you generally have 20% active, 80% lurking - they
  want to be informed, but don't want to or can't engage. The more activities we
  do to support these objectives (surveys, local groups), first we should grow
  _this_ group.
- {General consensus is reached regarding the three objectives}
- (Daniel) We have a few thousand developers across Asia, at GQL Taipei, GQL
  BKK, GQL Singapore & GQL Indonesia GQL Hong Kong, would love to see these
  communities grow. In all cities we have willing host offices.

## Align on how to manage initiatives (ideas, actions, champions, stages and tracking progress) (10m, Urigo)

- This is more a topic of _how_ we work.
- More meetings is an option.
- Can we focus our discussions on things that are ready for discussion?
  - A lot of discussions and progress happen on the issues themselves.
  - Then we bring it to the WG for discussion.
  - A champion brings it because they're either blocked (need more input, need a
    decision, etc) or to give a status update.
  - If no-one's working on something, taking responsibility for it/championing
    it - we can talk for hours about how awesome it would be, but if no-one's
    doing it, there's no point.

## Making progress on the website redesign (5m, Urigo)

- [https://github.com/graphql/community-wg/issues/21](https://github.com/graphql/community-wg/issues/21)
- For many years we've wanted a redesign of the website.
- There's many reasons it hasn't happened; but we now have the chance to do it.
  The main blocker was defining what we want the main page to say.
- I've summarised what we might want here:
  [https://github.com/graphql/community-wg/issues/21](https://github.com/graphql/community-wg/issues/21)
- I want a message that is better than what we have today (doesn't need to be
  perfect). The Guild maintains the website (but welcomes contribution and tries
  to make it as easy as possible!). We suggest that we hire a designer based on
  this input, and then The Guild will implement the design.
- Doc: Meena and I have submitted PRs to the website. I hope it remains as
  flexible as it is now. If we go out to the community with meetups/etc we'll
  get more information about what the community _needs_ the website to do. Doing
  it in stages gives us a chance to receive and react to feedback. We can be
  guided by analytics. The 2023 conference site was beautiful and amazing. The
  LF tool for the conf schedule in 2024 was not amazing. I'm hoping you do the
  2025 conference site!
- Uri: getting info from the community will improve the community, agree. Many
  of us interact with the community and have a sense of what is needed.
- (chat) Saihaj: Nothing in the infra or how you contribute will change. This is
  just content/messaging + design
- Uri: we'll continue to continuously change based on feedback. The new design
  is just a point in time that expresses the improvements we want to make now,
  but we can change it the very next day. We need data on growth, usage,
- Doc: automating/publishing the metrics from the website would be very helpful
- Uri: the LF team sometimes send links out to their tool
- Erik: recommend that we do a prototype without design first, apply them to the
  personas, and once we're happy then get the design done. Content strategy
  first.
- Uri: I'm happy to work on this, any feedback or any help is welcome.

## How to involve the community in GraphQL conf organization? (15m, Martin, All)

- Where is help needed?
- Can community members be involved in T Shirt design?
- Can the conference committee invite Martin?
- Doc and Martin both very excited to be able to attend a local EU conference
  rather than in the US

## Host monthly wg meetings as a live stream. (Use foundation's YouTube channel) (5 to 10m, Doc, All)

- A GitHub issue is going to be opened to discuss this further
- The monthly community working groups can become more of a status update
  livestreamed, rather than in depth conversations

## Make the Discord channel public? (5m, All)

- #44
