# Meeting Summary for Community WG

**NOTICE**: This summary was auto-generated by Zoom's "AI". AI-generated
content may be inaccurate or misleading. Always check for accuracy. If in
doubt, please consult the meeting recording at
https://youtube.com/@GraphQLFoundation/playlists

- Meeting start: 2025-04-10T15:00:02Z
- Meeting end: 2025-04-10T16:00:51Z
- Summary start: 2025-04-10T15:00:36Z
- Summary end: 2025-04-10T16:00:46Z

The meeting covered introductions, discussions on community empowerment, and updates on various GraphQL initiatives. Participants explored ways to support and engage community members, including mentorship programs and an ambassador scheme. The group also addressed challenges with AI note-taking, reviewed the GraphQL website redesign, and discussed the organization's structure and target audiences.

## Next Steps

- Doc to reach out to his network to find TypeScript developers for the State of GraphQL survey code walkthrough with Sasha.
- All members to share the GraphQL Ambassador program proposal with potential candidates and provide feedback.
- Uri to open an issue to discuss and document where the Community Working Group fits with other working groups and committees.
- All members to share the new website design with others who might have valuable opinions on it.
- Uri to start working on designs for additional pages of the website (learn section, community section, etc.).
- Doc to submit detailed questions and feedback on the website design process in the relevant GitHub issue.

## Summary

### Introductions and AI Note-Taking Discussion

In the meeting, Doc, Lavan, Uri, Benjie, Jem, and Jeff introduced themselves and their organizations. Lavan expressed interest in contributing to the GraphQL project and was encouraged to reach out to Uri or Benjie for guidance. The group also discussed the use of AI note-taking, with Jeff offering a bookmarklet to extract meeting information. The conversation ended with a discussion about the meeting's notes, with Benjie mentioning that he had set up AI note-taking but was struggling to extract the information from Zoom's interface.

### Empowering Community Through Support and Motivation

In the meeting, Benjie discussed the challenges of syncing AI notes and the value of human note takers. Doc outlined the agenda, which included a review of the website and a discussion on empowering the community. Uri shared his opinion on supporting community initiatives and empowering volunteers. Jeff emphasized the importance of empowering motivated community members and supporting them in their contributions. Benjie highlighted the need to define what empowering the community means and how to support different communities. Jeff suggested broadening the community's reach by encouraging participation from those who submit abstracts to conferences.

### Mentorship and Survey Challenges Discussed

Doc discussed the importance of mentorship in open-source projects, citing his experiences with Python and Rust. He suggested incorporating mentorship into the community's empowerment strategy. Jem agreed with Doc's points and added that getting from 0 to 1 is the hardest part of a process. The team then discussed the State of GraphQL survey, with Doc expressing concern about the lack of response and the need for a code walkthrough. Uri and Benjie suggested that the team may not have the necessary expertise to handle the survey, and Doc decided to reach out to his network for help. Jem then updated the team on the progress of the content selection and planning for the conference, including the launch of an initiative to involve project owners and maintainers in the talk selection process.

### Increasing Transparency in Upcoming Conference

Jem proposed the idea of increasing transparency in the upcoming conference, which Doc and Benjie agreed was a great idea. Jem also discussed the ambassador program, which aims to support and recognize community members who actively contribute to the GraphQL community. Doc suggested a conversation in the future to clarify the structure and roles of different committees within the foundation.

### Ambassador Program Flexibility Discussed

Jeff expressed excitement about the ambassador scheme and suggested being flexible in accommodating different needs and contributions. Doc offered to assist with the program and suggested considering various skill sets and goals for ambassadors. Benjie agreed to gather names of potential ambassadors and encouraged reaching out to them to understand their needs. The team discussed the importance of flexibility in the ambassador program to accommodate different contributions.

### GraphQL Organization and Website Redesign

The group discusses the structure of the GraphQL organization, including the foundation and technical project aspects. Benjie explains that the foundation handles non-technical matters while the Technical Steering Committee oversees public working groups. Uri suggests documenting this information and starting discussions through issues. The conversation then shifts to the GraphQL website redesign, with Uri seeking feedback and encouraging sharing the design for more input. Doc raises concerns about defining target audiences and value propositions for different user groups, to which Uri responds that they have already identified enterprise companies and full-stack TypeScript developers as primary targets.
