# Meeting Summary for Community WG

**NOTICE**: This summary was auto-generated by Zoom's "AI". AI-generated
content may be inaccurate or misleading. Always check for accuracy. If in
doubt, please consult the meeting recording at
https://youtube.com/@GraphQLFoundation/playlists

- Meeting start: 2025-10-09T14:59:32Z
- Meeting end: 2025-10-09T15:22:09Z
- Summary start: 2025-10-09T15:01:23Z
- Summary end: 2025-10-09T15:22:08Z

The meeting covered discussions about community contribution requirements, with a focus on whether to remove the CLA for certain working groups and the need to consult with the Foundation Board and technical steering committee. The team reviewed website improvements for new contributors and discussed plans for upcoming events including API Days Paris and FOSDEM 2025, with specific attention to gathering talk proposals and managing sponsorships. Various administrative matters were addressed, including CLA bot deployment issues and website updates related to TSC member access and video requirements.

## Next Steps

- Martin to ask Jeff about bringing up the CLA removal for community working group to the next board meeting.
- Martin to check the GraphQL All Hands video for the list of board representatives.
- Martin to meet with API Days Paris organizers to fix the CFP submission process.
- Martin to create a GitHub issue on community working group repo about API Days Paris CFP.
- Jem to finalize the pull request for the website guide on joining working groups.
- Benjie to check if TSC members can be added to the Ambassador mailing list.
- Benjie to get approval from the Conference Committee for the website update regarding meetup admin group and video requirements.

## Summary

### CLA Removal and API Days Paris

The meeting focused on two main agenda items: API Days Paris and removing the CLA for community contributions. Martin proposed removing the CLA for community working groups, but Benjie explained that the CLA is a requirement for contributions related to GraphQL Foundation deliverables, such as specifications and reference implementations. Benjie suggested that this issue should be discussed with the Foundation Board and the technical steering committee to determine if community working group discussions fall outside the scope of protected deliverables.

### Community Board and API Updates

Benjie suggested bringing a community recommendation to the board meeting, but noted that Jeff's involvement as a board member would be stronger. Martin agreed to check the list of board representatives, which was shared during the GraphQL All Hands meeting. Jem mentioned a pull request for the website to improve navigation for new contributors, and Martin praised its clarity and useful screenshots. Martin provided an update on API Days Paris, awaiting sponsorship confirmation and a process to handle CFP applications, with potential deadline adjustments.

### FOSDEM 2025 Planning and Logistics

The team discussed plans for FOSDEM 2025, agreeing to use a blog post on the foundation website to gather talk proposals, with Jem and Martin planning to share this information with ambassadors through face-to-face meetings and communication channels. Benjie mentioned that TSC members should be added to the Ambassador mailing list, and Martin confirmed he has access to the Ambassadors Discord channel. The team also addressed an issue with the CLA bot deployment, which was raised with the IT team, and discussed a pull request for website updates regarding TSC member meetup admin access and video requirements, which needs approval from the Foundation's conference committee.
